>> James Halliday: The next thing that
I wanna show is both wildcards and
brace expansions.
There's this really neat feature.
First, I'll do wildcards.
So you might have seen wildcards
in some other context before,
but they're also available in Mesh.
So I could type cat beep.txt boop.txt and
then moby-dick.txt.
And then it would concatenate all of
those, or for something a bit shorter,
I could type cat space *.txt, and
what that's gonna do is it's gonna expand
out to be all of those arguments, so.
Goodness.
>> James Halliday: Why?
It's gzipped.
Hang on, I gotta gunzip that.
>> James Halliday: Here's a great example
of where I can use brace expansions.
So now I have two files,
moby-dick.txt which is actually gzipped.
And I have the better one
which is moby-dick.txt_
which I want to replace the existing file.
So I can use the move command
that we covered already.
I could type out long form,
moby-dick.txt_,
just like the original file.
Then I wanna copy it over,
moby-dick.txt, which is the destination.
Or, a bit shorter way to write that
would be to use an open curly brace,
an underscore, comma, and a closing brace.
So, what this does, and
you can always test
what these kinds of different expansions
like wildcards and braces you're
going to expand to by putting echo in
front of whatever you're gonna do.
And so this will show you what
that commands expands out to, so
it's gonna be the same as this.
So how it works is all of the different
things that you might list
separated by commas inside of
braces are going to be expanded.
So I'll go ahead and run that commence and
you can see that now the file txt_
doesn't exist and the other one does.
Which is now uncompressed.
>> Speaker 2: You used underscore because
that was the trailing character of that
file, and you used just a comma with
nothing because that was also the trailing
character, if you will.
>> James Halliday: Yes.
Yeah, correct.
So, there's the common element of both
of those files was moby-dick.txt.
And then, one of them had an underscore
at the end, and the other one didn't have
anything at the end, so that's why I
used underscore and then empty string.
>> Speaker 2: Can you
chain that brace then?
For here's the common ground to this
point, here are the variations to this
point, and then continue
the string with more [CROSSTALK]?
>> James Halliday: Yes, yeah you can.
So I can show an example of
what that would look like.
So-
>> Speaker 2: Like beep and
boop, for example.
>> James Halliday: Yeah, so for example,
maybe I wanna cat everything that
starts with the b, and is ee and
oo, and then a p.txt, right?
So, if I wanna see what that expands out
to, I can see beep.txt and boop.txt.
Which I could also use a star for that.
So, if I want anything,
not just ee and oo,
that begins with an b then goes p.txt.
Can use the star.
You can also chain the brace
expansions together which does
a kind of combinatoric enumeration
which is sometimes useful.
Probably not very common, but
it's really fun to play with.
So, you could do something like.
Also things that you expand with
brace expansion unlike wildcards,
don't have to exists.
So if you just need to generate options
and things for different commands,
you could do that.
So do something like
will be ac ad bc bd,
or you can have even more options.
Maybe x, y, z which just generates a, what
is that a combination or a permutation?
I don't know but it does that, so.
[LAUGH]
>> Speaker 2: Something I
wasn't sure about till I tried,
it was the stars actually matching
the files in your-
>> James Halliday: Correct.
>> Speaker 2: Folder with the other
one is creating new stuff.
>> James Halliday: Yeah.
So when you use the brace expansion,
it just generates patterns and
stars will look for files,
and if the files exist then it will,
or we'll print them.
And if you're gonna use the star wildcard
expansion, you can preface that with
directories or preface it with any other
part of the string that you know about.
I could do cat.
cat *.txt will expand to be this,
beep, boop and moby-dick.
You can also test this stuff,
which is the echo command, Cindy.
Echo is a very simple command
that prints out a string.
So, it's a handy way
of providing stuff for
standard out, or
just printing different commands.
We'll be using this a lot to
play around with different commands
that read from standard in later.
So that's brace expansion.
A practical example of when you
might wanna use this stuff,
or when I've used it a lot in the past,
is if you need to.
So you could.
Maybe you're tasked with creating a bunch
of numbered directories for example.
So you could type that out.
You can make a script even.
That lists out every single one or another
thing you can do with brace expansion
is you can do sequences, so
if I need to generate a sequence
of image directories from 0 to 100,
there we go.
So img and then your number from 0 to 100,
inclusive.
So if I wanna mkdir,
all of those image directories.
Maybe I'll even mkdir a -p something
like images/img, whatever.
Now, in images directory,
I have 101 image directories, or
actually 100, because the top one is,
or no, it is.
So, this 101.
I guess that's how it works.
You could also specify a step, which is
a bit obscure, but sometimes it's useful.
So if I get rid of that directory,
I'll cover the rm command in a moment,
but maybe I only want every ten images,
or ten numbers.
I think that does it, right?
Yes, so now only 0, 10, 20, 30, 40, 50.
>> Speaker 2: So the first argument is
starting, second is ending, and third is-
>> James Halliday: Increment.
>> Speaker 2: Increments.
>> James Halliday: Yes.
So just some fun stuff
to play around with.
It doesn't come up too much but
it's just kinda handy.
This is kind of how a lot of
this command line stuff goes.
You just kinda have to
learn a lot of trivia and
then the more of these
little tricks you know,
the faster you can become and
kind of like the more stuff you can do.
But it's sort of just a gradual process
of learning these little one-off pieces.
In the aggregate, they kind of
amount to being proficient, I guess.
It's kind of handy because you can
get away with not knowing very much
to do what you want.
And then as you learn new pieces,
you just get better and better.
So that beats having to learn
a ton of stuff up front, I think.